an Israeli drone strike in southern
Lebanon has reportedly killed a senior
commander of the Hezbollah militant
group Hezbollah issued a statement
confirming that wisam Hassan Al tail had
been killed in a strike on Monday but
provided no further detail Lebanese
security sources said he was a member of
hezbollah's Elite radwan Force and that
he died in an attack on a vehicle in the
Southern Village of Ketel near the
border with Israel this is the second
high-profile killing in Lebanon in 2024
to be blamed on Israel last week hamas's
Deputy leader Salah aruri was killed in
a blast in a Beirut
suburb and we can join the DW
correspondent abas alali who who's in
the Lebanese Capital Beirut uh welcome
tell us more about hezbollah's reaction
to the killing of wisam Hassan
Al good morning hisbah him yesterday
called him Commander Alta became member
of the Islamic resistance since 1989
hisbah posted photos on its own website
of Al with leaders including Secretary
General s Hassan nasah and Imad M its
military commander who was killed in
Syria in 2008 another photo showed him
sitting next to the former leader of the
Iranian Al Force kasim sumani who was
killed by a us drone strike in Baghdad
for years
ago was a commander in hisbah Elite
radan forces and the most senior hisbah
Commander killed so far in the conflict
right now Israel hasn't commented on
this strike but why would it be
interested in eliminating hisbah
leaders Hezbollah stating from the
beginning that it's goal to alleviate
pressure on Gaza and Witham being one of
the leaders in hisbah responsible for
the operations in the South yesterday a
senior Source in libanon said he played
a leading role in directing its
operations in the South right so how
would his elimination affect the the war
in
Gaza look there are many developments
happened since two months top commander
in Ran Force killed in late November the
top Irani Commander R Musa was killed in
Syria salahi Deputy head of the Hamas
political per was killed last week in
Beirut the targeting of commanders and
leaders of hisbah and its Al can lead to
exacerbate the situation along the
southern border of leanon and the fears
of further escalation is existing here
in Beirut and Lebanon but one of the
security sources in Lebanon said about
the strike yesterday this is a very
painful strike and another one say
things will flare up so we don't know
what will happen the next hours on or or
days uh you know that um the people here
are looking for a peace and uh the
situation is very critical right and so
How likely then we just just pick up
that point about escalation because
that's what everyone is looking at um
How likely is that to inflame what is
going on and and escalate the the
conflict in the
region um you know it's depend on the
both side on isra and hisbah the
possibility to escalate the situ
is here but it's one of the
newspaper uh Lebanese newspaper wrote
today it's look like a race between war
and
diplomacy uh the officials here in
libanon they try to do the best to Des
escalate the situation and depending on
the diplomacy till now okay thank you
for that DW correspondent abas alali in
Beirut you you're welcome you're
welcome US Secretary of State Anthony
blinken is in Israel as part of a
week-long diplomatic tour aimed at
trying to prevent an escalation of the
war in Gaza he arrived in Tel Aviv late
on Monday he's due to meet Israel's
president isak Herzog before meeting
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
his War cabinet Mr blinken's expected to
push Israel to do more to protect
civilian lives as it fights Hamas which
the Us and other countries have
classified as a terrorist organization
the US also wants more aid for the
people of Gaza secretary blinkin spoke
to reporters in Saudi Arabia before
boarding his plane to Israel I'll have
an opportunity to share with Israeli
leaders everything I've heard thus far
uh on this trip and also to talk to them
uh about the future direction of their
military campaign in Gaza uh I will
press on the absolute
imperative to do more to protect
civilians and to do more to make sure
that humanitarian assistance is getting
into the hands of those who need it our
special correspondent a Ibrahim joins us
from Jerusalem welcome a um how is
Israel likely to view Anthony blinken's
visit well it is his fourth visit to the
region since October uh 7th and before
coming here to Israel the Secretary of
State uh has had a tour of the region
where he has listened to the concerns of
uh Arab leaders about the ongoing War uh
in in Gaza um he will likely be trying
to bring uh the message that the that
the Biden Administration has been
echoing for the past weeks that Israel
needs to um pay more attention to
civilian life in its conduct uh of the
war there will also be discussions about
the proverbial day after uh the war
we've seen in the past uh two weeks or
so different ideas coming from different
ministers within the Israeli cabinet no
official policy yet about what should
happen in Gaza after the war uh but we
have seen the defense minister lay out
uh plans that include uh no civilian uh
presence in the strip whereas the
Finance Minister and uh um the uh
National Security ministers have said
that they want to see The Return of
Israeli settlements uh uh to the strip
so it's going to be a tall order on his
uh uh visit discussing a combination
between the what should happen in the
war but also bringing the wishes of the
region to Israeli leaders as to what
should happen after the war as well
right and and despite being Israel's
biggest backer you you you touched on
the significant disagreements that there
have been between these two allies um
how much influence does the US have on
Israel that's correct the US Israel's
biggest Becker is so one would think
that if anybody has an influence on
Israeli leadership it would be the
United uh States uh the but Israeli
leadership has says that they will
conduct this War uh the way that they
see fit uh to achieve their uh sort of
professed goals from uh the war H at the
same time uh we have heard President
Biden uh for example say that he has
been quietly trying to get uh Israel to
significantly reduce its presence uh in
the strip and there are signs even from
Israeli leadership now that the strategy
the military strategy within the strip
is uh changing uh that in the northern
part uh the IDF will be focusing on
raids and the destruction of tunnels
while uh targeting Hamas leadership in
the South now this doesn't really you
know necessarily give any comfort to the
civilians in the Gaza Strip most of
which are now crammed in the South and
we've seen how in precise Israeli
strikes be in targeting Hamas leadership
often times taking um you know large
numbers of casualties so-called uh
collateral damage in the targeting of
this of Hamas leaders okay thank you for
that a a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem